---
layout: markdown_page
title: Professional Services Business Operations
category: Internal
---

1. **SAL and SA** have a discussion about services as part of the pre-sales process. Most likely sometime between [2-Scoping and 4-Proposal](https://github.com/isamu-isozaki/teamai_test/tree/master/business-ops/#sts=Opportunity%20Stages/index.html.md) *∏è‚É£
1. **SAL or SA** uses answers from this discussion to generate rough-order-of-magnitude (ROM/index.html.md) for budget qualification using the current [services calculator](https://github.com/isamu-isozaki/teamai_test/tree/master/customer-success/implementation-engineering/selling/#services-calculator/index.html.md)
1. **SAL** sends ROM to Manager, Professional Services (or Dir. CS/index.html.md) for approval.
1. **SAL** creates new professional services opportunity. This will be a child opportunity to the original opp and have a more compact layout related only to Professional Sertices.**
1. **SAL** enters `Professional Services Amount` to the opportunity to allow for tracking. **This will be the initial value of the PS engagement. I will remove the PS Amount field from non-professional services opportunities to ensure this is the only area where PS Amount can be added.**
1. **Manager, Professional Services and/or Dir. CS** decide if there is enough information to approval straight away or if more discovery is needed.
1. **SAL or CS Team**: More discovery could include: additional questions for SAL/SA, additional questions for the customer and/or a separate discussion with an IE, Manager, PS and/or Dir. CS (_Francis: would love to keep the conversions within Salesforce via Chatter_/index.html.md)
1. **SAL**: Once approved, a quote is generated by SAL using the Zuora Quotes Object. They will use the Professional Services SOW template.
1. **Implementation Engineering**: Once a quote is approved by the customer, [SOW is generated by Implementation Engineering](https://github.com/isamu-isozaki/teamai_test/tree/master/customer-success/implementation-engineering/#statement-of-work-creation/index.html.md)
1. **SAL**: Once accepted and signed off by the customer, SAL marks opp to **Closed Won**.
1. This triggers the creation of a [SOW Project object](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/salesforce/issues/279/index.html.md) in Salesforce
1. **Finance** bills customer for entire amount (unless the customer has changed these terms in the SOW/index.html.md)
1. **Implementation Engineer** is assigned and conducts project [according to the Implementation Engineering workflows](https://github.com/isamu-isozaki/teamai_test/tree/master/customer-success/implementation-engineering/workflows/index.html.md/index.html.md) and Manager, Implementation Services advances the `SOW Project Object` in Salesforce
1. **Implementation Engineer**: Once the customer has accepted work as completed, Implementation Engineering follows [financial wrap-up IE workflow](https://github.com/isamu-isozaki/teamai_test/tree/master/customer-success/implementation-engineering/workflows/internal/financial-wrapup.html/index.html.md)
1. **SAL or TAM**: Send sign off document to customer.
1. **Finance** is responsible for any collections post-IE Financial Wrap-up steps
